hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is a video on the moto Z
and the Moto Z force so what makes these
phones special are the fact that they're
modular phones they have detachable
components that you can switch around to
make the phones do different things but
these aren't the first modular phones
we've seen this year LG had the g5 which
was a bit of a Miss but these phones the
Moto phones are a completely different
take on the whole modular phone concept
so let's take a look at how they are as
a regular smartphone first they're
currently both Verizon exclusives but
the Moto Z will eventually come in an
unlocked version of contract they're
around $600 for the Moto Z and $700 for
the Moto Z force they're pretty
expensive so thankfully the build
quality is on point everything just
feels super solid the machining on the
metal is great the seams are tight and
there's next to no material flux because
it is an aluminum body even the back
it's actually one of the best built
phones I've seen from Motorola and the
Moto Z is super thin it's five point two
millimeters one of the thinnest you can
get on the market right now the bigger
one the Moto G force is a bit thicker
and heavier but when you use them
individually they're actually both
comfortable to use the buttons on the
side are all the same size they're kind
of small and they're positioned a little
higher than the Moto X buttons but
because the power button is still
textured I got used to it quickly the
camera hump on the back is one of the
bigger ones out there but these humps
are so common out they've kind of
stopped bothering me if you're wondering
about phone wobble from the hump it's
not an issue if you're in portrait mode
but if you're in landscape yeah there is
a bit of a wobble both of the cameras
have an aperture of 1.8 with oh is and
laser focusing it can't take the crown
from the Samsung phones right now but it
takes some very respectable photos
accurate colors good dynamic range the
one on the Z force has a higher
resolution at 21 megapixels instead of
the 13 megapixels on the Z but aside
from having higher resolution the image
quality looks very similar between them
both in low light and brightly lit
environments the photos that I took in
low lights aren't amazing they have
quite a bit of noise and even if I'm on
HDR the image doesn't look great I did
notice that the Z Force has more
reliable focusing for macro photos
probably because it has phase detection
the regular mode is you would hunt for
focus a bit more but yeah pretty good
cameras overall I wouldn't say that
they're strong in low-light but for an
everyday shooter I'm happy with it it
also shoots 4k video the displays are
both five and a half inch quad HD AMOLED
panels colors are vibrant and the
viewing angles are good like all ammo
LEDs but they aren't super bright in a
brightly lit room the screens can feel a
little dim at times there's standard
Gorilla Glass 4 on the Moto Z the Z
Force has Motorola's shatter shield
which is guaranteed to be shatterproof
and we've seen that stuff before it's
really durable the voice quality on the
mic seemed good and earpiece volume is
appropriately loud it doubles as the
mono speaker doesn't sound amazing and I
definitely miss the stereo speakers from
the Moto X but it's not bad the square
fingerprint sensor works well but it's
not a home button I pressed it so many
times this week trying to use it as a
home button I don't love the square
shape I feel like it doesn't really go
with the design aesthetic of the phone
but it gets the job done
there's now a three-and-a-half
millimeter audio jack you need to use
the included adapter to use headphones
there's still a jack in the phone it's
not in the adapter cable but it's in the
phone itself and the audio sounds very
standard for a smart phone it's not a
super special deck and there anything
the dongle is super easy to lose if you
leave the dongle attach to your
headphone it can help but I did this and
I still lost one so maybe use some tape
system performance is fast they're both
running a Snapdragon 820 so you expect
it to be fast but it does get pretty
warm it's not uncomfortable to hold or
anything but it throttles down when
you're running long benchmarks or
sometimes when you're playing more
demanding games basically if you push
the processor hard it heats up and once
it hits 39 or 40 degrees the CPU
throttles down and amp up the problem if
you're using a modem odd that covers the
back of the phone like a battery
something now there is another object on
the back that also puts out Heat and it
makes it more difficult for the
processor to dissipate the heat so if
you're a hardcore gamer and you want
maximum frame rates I would just keep
the phone naked on the back to let that
CPU cool off the Moto Z runs a
relatively small battery and using just
the built-in battery I had a tough time
getting it to last a full day it's
doable but it's not easy the Moto
z-force has a significantly bigger
battery and last thing a full day is
pretty comfortable but for both of these
because they have turbo charging
the battery mods most users should be
okay it's running android 6.0.1 the
standard motorola tweaks are still there
and as much as I love stock Android I
also like Motorola's version because
it's so close to vanilla with some
useful things like the twist for camera
and this year the twist for camera is
really fast a few months ago when I was
trying to use the LG g5 as my daily
driver I remember thinking that maybe
modular phones aren't for me the phone
is really cool and fun to play with but
the modular pieces didn't have that
polish that I needed in a daily driver
the moto mods are really different
they're well made and super simple to
use a few magnets securely hold them in
place
and when you touch them there's no
rebooting or any kind of user
requirement it automatically gets
recognized whenever you place them on
the style covers are pretty basic
there's just various covers of different
materials this one's made with real wood
it doesn't have any functionality other
than aesthetics but if you've ever said
hey phone companies please give me a
thicker phone with a bigger battery well
now you can do that a bunch of companies
are bringing out battery options this
one's from incipio it has wireless
charging capabilities and packs a 2200
milliamp battery in there and with all
of these you can straight up hot swap
the battery in the middle of a phone
call there's no need to turn it off when
you connect it the modal model actually
fill up the internal battery I really
like these and I think these are the
first hot swappable batteries I've seen
on a phone now if you've ever wanted
some proper speakers and didn't want to
bring an external Bluetooth speaker you
can do that so at first I thought why
would I want this thing when I already
have a good Bluetooth speaker that I
really like but after using it for a
while I'm sold even though it makes your
phone pretty thick when it's attached
having only one thing to charge and one
thing to carry is really nice it doesn't
sound as good as some Bluetooth speakers
but compared to anything on a phone this
thing is fantastic when you're using
moto mods there's a widget that shows
the battery level of the mod itself some
mods can be charged separately or you
can attach the mod to the Moto Z plug in
your USB C cable and that will charge up
the phone first and then charge up the
mod once the phone is full now if you
want to use mods you probably won't be
able to use a bumper or a case the
device looks good naked but if you ever
want to change it up you can easily put
on a D brand skin the mod still work
perfectly
this one is concrete it's linked ville
okay the moto Z and Z force phones they
both have an aluminum chassis with great
build quality five and a half inch
AMOLED screens that have vibrant colors
but they could be a little brighter
there's a single speaker up top so no
stereo sound they have square-shaped
fingerprint sensors that are fast they
both have 5 megapixel front facing
cameras the moto Z has Gorilla Glass 4
the Moto G Force has shatter shield on
the back of the device we have a 13 or a
21 megapixel camera both they're solid
shooters there's also a series of
connection points and magnets for all
the cool modal mods on the inside we
have 32 gigs of storage upgradeable by
micro sd a Snapdragon 820 that is fast
but it can throttle on benchmarks and
heavier games especially if you have a
modem I attached powering them our
batteries that are a little short on the
Moto Z but comfortable on the Moto Z
force and lastly they both have a
water-resistant nano coating that should
protect it from the rain so I think
Motorola did a really good job on these
phones I've always been interested in
modular phones and I've often been
disappointed by them these are the first
ones that have been very impressed by it
they're really well executed the mods
themselves are really well done the
mechanism of how everything works is
really intuitive and simple to use and
the best thing is that Motorola wants
these mods the ones that exist today
they want them to be able to work on
future Motorola phones they wanted to
have like an extended life like that
that is awesome that shows commitment
from Motorola for like a long-term
investment in this whole modular phone
thing if you're interested in modular
phones take a look at the Moto Z might
like it hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs have you liked it
subs if you loved it it's been nice see
you guys next time
Oh